OpenVINO GenAI workflow (#2291)
huggingface/blog: deploy-with-openvino.md

---
title: Optimize and deploy 🤗 Transformer models with Optimum-Intel and OpenVINO Gen.AI
authors:
- user: AlexKoff88
  guest: true
- user: MrOpenVINO
  guest: true
- user: katuni4ka
  guest: true
- user: sandye51
  guest: true
- user: raymondlo84
  guest: true
- user: helenai
  guest: true
- user: sayakpaul
- user: echarlaix
---

# Optimize and deploy 🤗 Transformer models with Optimum-Intel and OpenVINO Gen.AI

When it comes to the Edge or Client deployment of the Transformers models Python is not always a suitable solution for this purpose. Many ISV's applications are written in C++ and require model inference API to be also in C++. Another aspect of such deployment is the application footprint which also should be minimized to simplify SW installation and update. [OpenVINO Toolkit](https://docs.openvino.ai/) initially emerged as a C++ AI inference solution that has bindings to popular programming languages such as Python or Java. It continues to be popular for Edge and Client deployment with the minimum dependencies on 3rd party SW libraries.

> Recently, OpenVINO introduced [Generative AI (Gen.AI) API](https://docs.openvino.ai/2024/learn-openvino/llm_inference_guide/genai-guide.html) designed to simplify integration of Generative AI model inference into C++ (or Python) application with the minimum external dependencies. LLM inference is the first feature in Gen.AI API that is currently available. OpenVINO Gen.AI SW package is supplied with [OpenVINO Tokenizers](https://docs.openvino.ai/2024/learn-openvino/llm_inference_guide/ov-tokenizers.html) library required for text tokenization-detokenization. It also contains various [examples](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino.genai/tree/master/samples): from naive LLM decoder-based inference to speculative decoding.

Reviewer: Should we mention that OpenVINO Tokenizers is "c++/footprint friendly implementation"?

Author: done

## Pre-requisites

Python and C++ environments are required to run the examples below.

Python requirements:
- transformers==4.44
- openvino==24.3
- optimum-intel==1.20
- lm-eval==0.4.3

For Gen.AI C++ libraries installation follow the instruction [here](https://docs.openvino.ai/2024/get-started/install-openvino/install-openvino-genai.html).

## Exporting model from 🤗 Transformers to OpenVINO

🤗 and Intel have a long story of collaboration and [Optimum-Intel](https://huggingface.co/docs/optimum/en/intel/index) project is a part of this story. It is designed to optimize Transformers models for inference on Intel HW. Optimum-Intel supports OpenVINO as an inference backend and its API has wrappers for various model architectures built on top of OpenVINO inference API. All of these wrappers start from `OV` prefix, for example, `OVModelForCausalLM`. Otherwise, it is similar to the API of 🤗 Transformers library.

> To export 🤗 Transformers model to OpenVINO IR one case use two options: `.from_pretrained()` API method of the Optimum-Intel class or the command-line interface (CLI).

Reviewer: "OpenVINO IR one case use two options"-this is somewhat confusing sentence.  Also you write two options, but show one here and then later write "Alternatively," - which is not entirely fitting the style.

Author: done

Further, we will use the recent Llama 3.1 8B decoder model as an example.

> The export with the former option looks as follows:

Reviewer: Perhaps it makes sense to show how to install Optimum-intel?

Author: done

```python
from optimum.intel import OVModelForCausalLM

MODEL_ID = "meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3.1-8B"
model = OVModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(MODEL_ID, export=True)

> model.save_pretrained("./llam-3.1-8b-ov")

Reviewer: why llam?

Author: done

Reviewer 2: There are still "llama-3.1-8b-ov"s :)

```

Alternatively, the same can be done with CLI as follows:
```sh
optimum-cli export openvino -m meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3.1-8B ./llam-3.1-8b-ov
```

> The `./llam-3.1-8b-ov` folder will contain `.xml` and `bin` IR model files and required configuration files that come from the source model. If `openvino-tokenizers` library is installed the export process will also convert 🤗 tokenizer to the format of OpenVINO Tokinizers library and create corresponding configuration files in the same folder.

Reviewer: Will openvino-tokenizers be installed by default? I think so, maybe we should not mention this installation alternative and just say that tokenizers will also be converted?

Author: done

## Model Optimization

> Model optimization is a mandatory step when it comes to LLM deployment. And weight-only quantization is a mainstream approach that significantly reduces latency and model footprint. Optimum-Intel provides weight-only quantization capabilities by means of NNCF which has a variety of optimization techniques designed specifically for LLMs: from data-free INT8 and INT4 weight quantization to data-aware methods such as AWQ, GPTQ, quantization scale estimation, mixed-precision quantization.

Reviewer: I suggest to rephrase to "When running LLMs on the resource constrained edge and client devices, model optimization is highly recommended step"

Author: done

By default, weights of the models that are larger than one billion parameters are quantized to INT8 precision which is safe in terms of accuracy. It means that the export steps described above lead to the model with 8-bit weights. However, 4-bit integer weight-only quantization allows achieving a better accuracy-performance trade-off. 

> For `meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3.1-8B` model we recommend stacking AWQ, quantization scale estimation along with mixed-precision INT4/INT8 quantization of weights using a calibration dataset that reflects a deployment use case. As in the case of export, there are two options on how to apply 4-bit weight-only quantization to LLM model:

Reviewer: Is it possible to give links to pages that describe AWQ and other methods? Just to make it more information reach...

Author: done

```

>**Note**: The model optimization process can take time as it and applies several methods subsequently and uses model inference over the specified dataset.

Model optimization with API is more flexible as it allows using custom datasets that can be passed as an iterable object, for example, and instance of `Dataset` object of 🤗 library or just a list of strings.

Weight quantization usually introduces some degradation of the accuracy metric. To compare optimized and source models we report Word Perplexity metric measured on the [Wikitext](https://huggingface.co/datasets/EleutherAI/wikitext_document_level) dataset with [lm-evaluation-harness](https://github.com/EleutherAI/lm-evaluation-harness.git) project which support both 🤗 Transformers and Optimum-Intel models out-of-the-box.

TODO compare metrics of the PyTorch, OV 8-bit and OV 4-bit models. 
| Model                        | PPL PyTorch FP32 | OpenVINO INT8 | OpenVINO INT4 |
| :--------------------------- | :--------------: | :-----------: | :-----------: |
| meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3.1-8B |   7.3366         | 7.3463        | 7.8288        | 

## Deploy model with OpenVINO Gen.AI C++ API

> In this part, we will show how to run an optimized model with OpenVINO Gen.AI C++ API. The Gen.AI API is designed to be intuitive and provides a seamless migration from 🤗 Transformers API. The basic concept of this API is `ov::genai::LLMPipeline` class. Its instance can be created directly from the folder with the converted model. It will automatically load the main model, tokenizer, detokenizer, and the default generation configuration. The basic inference with `LLMPipeline` looks as follows:

Reviewer: "In this part"->"Now, when we have successfully converted and optimized our model, let's see how to run it using OpenVINO Gen.AI C++ API"

Author: done

```cpp
#include "openvino/genai/llm_pipeline.hpp"
#include <iostream>

int main(int argc, char* argv[]) {
   std::string model_path = "./llam-3.1-8b-ov";
   ov::genai::LLMPipeline pipe(model_path, "CPU");
   std::cout << pipe.generate("What is LLM model?", ov::genai::max_new_tokens(256));
}
```

> 

Reviewer: Could we mention that same code could use "GPU" as target device for integrated and discrete GPUs?  i.e. only device name change is required to switch between devices...

Reviewer 3: https://gist.github.com/helena-intel/0acef0ce3342cb26cc4311f612991e59

I tested Helena's instruction here, and I managed to get the chat_sample running! This is pretty awesome indeed. 

![IMG_2267](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9c9b3fdb-50be-49d7-9018-fd8fbcde1df7)

Author: added

> `LLMPipeline` also allows specifying custom generation options by means of `ov::genai::GenerationConfig`. It also supports streaming and chat scenarios as well as Beam Search. You can find more details in this [tutorial](https://docs.openvino.ai/2024/learn-openvino/llm_inference_guide/genai-guide.html).

Reviewer: I would suggest adding at least one more example, for instance with streamer to indicate interactive output for generation. It will not add to the paper much, but will show additional capabilities very well.

Author: done

Author: Added

---
title: Optimize and deploy 🤗 Transformer models with Optimum-Intel and OpenVINO Gen.AI
authors:

> - user: AlexKoff88
>   guest: true

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- user: AlexKoff88
  guest: true
  org: Intel
```

Please add the organization to guest authors for attribution, it will show on the blog post nicely

Author: done

---
title: Optimize and deploy 🤗 Transformer models with Optimum-Intel and OpenVINO GenAI
authors:
- user: AlexKoff88
  guest: true
  org: Intel
- user: MrOpenVINO
  guest: true
  org: Intel
- user: katuni4ka
  guest: true
  org: Intel
- user: sandye51
  guest: true
  org: Intel
- user: raymondlo84
  guest: true
  org: Intel
- user: helenai
  guest: true
  org: Intel

> - user: sayakpaul

Reviewer 5: not sure if done intentionally I imagine this is coming from https://github.com/huggingface/blog/blob/197124cb7e56ea06d6d947a32b33fff977589442/train-optimize-sd-intel.md?plain=1#L4-L12

Author: you are right. What is wrong with that?

Reviewer 5: OK so we need to have @sayakpaul as a reviewer then

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```
cc @sayakpaul

In this blog post, we will outline the LLM deployment steps that include model exportation from Transformers library to OpenVINO Intermediate Representation (IR) using [Optimum-Intel](https://huggingface.co/docs/optimum/en/intel/index), model optimization with [Neural Network Compression Framework (NNCF)](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/nncf), and software deployment with new GenAI API. We will guide the user through all these steps and highlight changes of basic model KPIs, namely accuracy and performance.

![OpenVINO GenAI workflow diagram](/blog/assets/deploy-with-openvino/openvino_genai_workflow.png "OpenVINO GenAI workflow diagram")

## Pre-requisites

Python and C++ environments are required to run the examples below.

To install packages on the Python environment, use the following command.
```sh
pip install --upgrade --upgrade-strategy eager "optimum[openvino]"
```

The following Python packages were used to reproduce the results in this blog post.
- transformers==4.44
- openvino==24.3
- openvino-tokenizers==24.3

> - optimum-intel==1.20

Author: thanks for the finding,  fixed

To export 🤗 Transformers model to OpenVINO IR one can use two options: `.from_pretrained()` API method of the Optimum-Intel class in a Python script or do it with Optimum the command-line interface (CLI).
Further, we will use the recent Llama 3.1 8B decoder model as an example.
The export with the former option looks as follows:
```python
from optimum.intel import OVModelForCausalLM

MODEL_ID = "meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3.1-8B"
model = OVModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(MODEL_ID, export=True)
model.save_pretrained("./llam-3.1-8b-ov")
```

Alternatively, the same can be done with CLI as follows:
```sh
optimum-cli export openvino -m meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3.1-8B ./llam-3.1-8b-ov
```

The `./llam-3.1-8b-ov` folder will contain `.xml` and `bin` IR model files and required configuration files that come from the source model. 🤗 tokenizer will be also converted to the format of `openvino-tokenizers` library and corresponding configuration files will be created in the same folder.

## Model Optimization

> When running LLMs on the resource constrained edge and client devices, model optimization is highly recommended step. And weight-only quantization is a mainstream approach that significantly reduces latency and model footprint. Optimum-Intel provides weight-only quantization capabilities by means of NNCF which has a variety of optimization techniques designed specifically for LLMs: from data-free INT8 and INT4 weight quantization to data-aware methods such as [AWQ](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main/en/quantization/awq), [GPTQ](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main/en/quantization/gptq), quantization scale estimation, mixed-precision quantization.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
When running LLMs on resource constrained edge and client devices, model optimization is a highly recommended step. And weight-only quantization is a mainstream approach that can significantly reduce the latency and model footprint. Optimum Intel provides weight-only quantization capabilities by means of NNCF which has a variety of optimization techniques designed specifically for LLMs: from data-free INT8 and INT4 weight quantization to data-aware methods such as [AWQ](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main/en/quantization/awq), [GPTQ](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main/en/quantization/gptq), quantization scale estimation, mixed-precision quantization.
```

> By default, weights of the models that are larger than one billion parameters are quantized to INT8 precision which is safe in terms of accuracy. It means that the export steps described above lead to the model with 8-bit weights. However, 4-bit integer weight-only quantization allows achieving a better accuracy-performance trade-off. 

Reviewer 5: not sure "safe in terms of accuracy" is adapted as it could lead to accuracy degradation in some cases, what abut something like  
```suggestion
By default, weights of the models that are larger than one billion parameters are quantized to INT8 precision which doesn't impact negatively accuracy in most cases. It means that the export steps described above lead to the model with 8-bit weights. However, 4-bit integer weight-only quantization allows achieving a better accuracy-performance trade-off. 
```

Reviewer 5: Not sure to get the "However, 4-bit integer weight-only quantization allows achieving a better accuracy-performance trade-off." sentence

For `meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3.1-8B` model we recommend stacking AWQ, quantization scale estimation along with mixed-precision INT4/INT8 quantization of weights using a calibration dataset that reflects a deployment use case. As in the case of export, there are two options on how to apply 4-bit weight-only quantization to LLM model:
- Specify `quantization_config` parameter in the `.from_pretrained()` method. In this case `OVWeightQuantizationConfig` object should be created and set to this parameter as follows:

> ```pythonTransformers

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```python
```

from optimum.intel import OVModelForCausalLM, OVWeightQuantizationConfig

MODEL_ID = "meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3.1-8B"

> quantization_config = OVWeightQuantizationConfig(awq=True, scale_estimation=True, group_size=64, dataset="c4")

Author: thanks for the finding, fixed

## Step 1: Setting Up the Environment

## Pre-requisites

To start, ensure your environment is properly configured with both Python and C++. Install the necessary Python packages:
```sh
pip install --upgrade --upgrade-strategy eager "optimum[openvino]"
```

Here are the specific packages used in this blog post:
```
transformers==4.44
openvino==24.3
openvino-tokenizers==24.3
optimum-intel==1.20
lm-eval==0.4.3
```

For GenAI C++ libraries installation follow the instruction [here](https://docs.openvino.ai/2024/get-started/install-openvino/install-openvino-genai.html).

## Step 2: Exporting Models to OpenVINO IR

Hugging Face and Intel's collaboration has led to the [Optimum-Intel](https://huggingface.co/docs/optimum/en/intel/index) project. It is designed to optimize Transformers models for inference on Intel HW. Optimum-Intel supports OpenVINO as an inference backend and its API has wrappers for various model architectures built on top of OpenVINO inference API. All of these wrappers start from `OV` prefix, for example, `OVModelForCausalLM`. Otherwise, it is similar to the API of 🤗 Transformers library.

> To export Transformer models to OpenVINO Intermediate Representation (IR) one can use two options: This can be done using Python’s `.from_pretrained()` method or the Optimum command-line interface (CLI). Below are examples using both methods:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
To export Transformers models to OpenVINO Intermediate Representation (IR) one can use two options: This can be done using Python’s `.from_pretrained()` method or the Optimum command-line interface (CLI). Below are examples using both methods:
```

```

And finally let's see how to use LLMPipeline in the chat scenario:
```cpp
pipe.start_chat()
for (size_t i = 0; i < questions.size(); i++) {
   std::cout << "question:\n";
   std::getline(std::cin, prompt);

   std::cout << pipe.generate(prompt) << std::endl;
}
pipe.finish_chat();
```

## Conclusion
The combination of Optimum-Intel and OpenVINO™ GenAI offers a powerful, flexible solution for deploying Hugging Face models at the edge. By following these steps, you can achieve optimized, high-performance AI inference in environments where Python may not be ideal, ensuring your applications run smoothly across Intel hardware.

## Additional Resources
1. You can find more details in this [tutorial](https://docs.openvino.ai/2024/learn-openvino/llm_inference_guide/genai-guide.html).
2. To build the C++ examples above refer to this [document](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino.genai/blob/releases/2024/3/src/docs/BUILD.md).
3. [OpenVINO Documentation](docs.openvino.ai)
4. [Jupyter Notebooks](https://docs.openvino.ai/2024/learn-openvino/interactive-tutorials-python.html)
5. [Optimum Documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/optimum/main/en/intel/index)

> ![OpenVINO GenAI C++ chat demo](/blog/assets/deploy-with-openvino/demo.gif "OpenVINO GenAI C++ chat demo")

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
![OpenVINO GenAI C++ chat demo](https://huggingface.co/datasets/OpenVINO/documentation/resolve/main/blog/openvino_genai_workflow/demo.gif)
```

auto streamer = [](std::string subword) {
    std::cout << subword << std::flush;
    return false;
};

// Since the streamer is set, the results will
// be printed each time a new token is generated.
pipe.generate(prompt, config, streamer);
```

And finally let's see how to use LLMPipeline in the chat scenario:
```cpp
pipe.start_chat()
for (size_t i = 0; i < questions.size(); i++) {
   std::cout << "question:\n";
   std::getline(std::cin, prompt);

   std::cout << pipe.generate(prompt) << std::endl;
}
pipe.finish_chat();
```

## Conclusion
The combination of Optimum-Intel and OpenVINO™ GenAI offers a powerful, flexible solution for deploying Hugging Face models at the edge. By following these steps, you can achieve optimized, high-performance AI inference in environments where Python may not be ideal, ensuring your applications run smoothly across Intel hardware.

## Additional Resources
1. You can find more details in this [tutorial](https://docs.openvino.ai/2024/learn-openvino/llm_inference_guide/genai-guide.html).
2. To build the C++ examples above refer to this [document](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino.genai/blob/releases/2024/3/src/docs/BUILD.md).

> 3. [OpenVINO Documentation] (docs.openvino.ai)
> 4. [Jupyter Notebooks] (https://docs.openvino.ai/2024/learn-openvino/interactive-tutorials-python.html)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
3. [OpenVINO Documentation](docs.openvino.ai)
4. [Jupyter Notebooks](https://docs.openvino.ai/2024/learn-openvino/interactive-tutorials-python.html)
5. [Optimum Documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/optimum/main/en/intel/index)
```

## About the Authors

> Raymond Lo, currently based in Silicon Valley, is the global lead of Intel's AI evangelist team, focusing on the OpenVINO™ Toolkit. With a diverse background that includes founding the augmented reality company Meta, Raymond has also held key roles at Samsung NEXT and Google Cloud AI. His work spans startup entrepreneurship and enterprise innovation, with a strong presence in global conferences like TED Talks and SIGGRAPH.

Reviewer 4: Adding an author bio is atypical for HF blogs. The blog post header has clickable links to the authors Hugging Face profile. This information would be most helpful on a HF user profile.

Author: Added bio into my profile on the Hub

Reviewer 5: removing 
```suggestion
```

## Notices & Disclaimers
Intel technologies may require enabled hardware, software, or service activation.
No product or component can be absolutely secure.
Your costs and results may vary.

> © Intel Corporation. Intel, the Intel logo, and other Intel marks are trademarks of Intel Corporation or its subsidiaries. Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others.

Reviewer 4: Do we need this? This is published on HF blog so this feels unnecessary.

Author: @malusos, please take a look

Author: resolved

---

> title: Optimize and deploy 🤗 Transformer models with Optimum-Intel and OpenVINO GenAI

Reviewer 5: needs to be added to https://github.com/huggingface/blog/blob/main/_blog.yml#L4621 before merging

Author: done

> title: Optimize and deploy 🤗 Transformer models with Optimum-Intel and OpenVINO GenAI

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
title: Optimize and deploy with Optimum-Intel and OpenVINO GenAI
```
we try to keep titles short

authors:
- user: AlexKoff88
  guest: true
  org: Intel
- user: MrOpenVINO
  guest: true
  org: Intel
- user: katuni4ka
  guest: true
  org: Intel
- user: sandye51
  guest: true
  org: Intel
- user: raymondlo84
  guest: true
  org: Intel
- user: helenai
  guest: true
  org: Intel
- user: sayakpaul
- user: echarlaix
---

> # Optimize and deploy HuggingFace (🤗) Transformer models with Optimum-Intel and OpenVINO GenAI

Reviewer 5: here we are talking about the library so should Transformers

```suggestion
# Optimize and deploy HuggingFace (🤗) Transformers models with Optimum-Intel and OpenVINO GenAI
```

> # Optimize and deploy HuggingFace (🤗) Transformer models with Optimum-Intel and OpenVINO GenAI

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
# Optimize and deploy models with Optimum-Intel and OpenVINO GenAI
```

## Step 2: Exporting Models to OpenVINO IR

Hugging Face and Intel's collaboration has led to the [Optimum-Intel](https://huggingface.co/docs/optimum/en/intel/index) project. It is designed to optimize Transformers models for inference on Intel HW. Optimum-Intel supports OpenVINO as an inference backend and its API has wrappers for various model architectures built on top of OpenVINO inference API. All of these wrappers start from `OV` prefix, for example, `OVModelForCausalLM`. Otherwise, it is similar to the API of 🤗 Transformers library.

To export Transformer models to OpenVINO Intermediate Representation (IR) one can use two options: This can be done using Python’s .from_pretrained() method or the Optimum command-line interface (CLI). Below are examples using both methods:
### Using Python API
```python
from optimum.intel import OVModelForCausalLM

MODEL_ID = "meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3.1-8B"
model = OVModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(MODEL_ID, export=True)
model.save_pretrained("./llam-3.1-8b-ov")
```

### Using Command Line Interface (CLI)
```sh

> optimum-cli export openvino -m meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3.1-8B ./llam-3.1-8b-ov

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
optimum-cli export openvino -m meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3.1-8B ./llama-3.1-8b-ov
```

For `meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3.1-8B` model we recommend stacking AWQ, quantization scale estimation along with mixed-precision INT4/INT8 quantization of weights using a calibration dataset that reflects a deployment use case. As in the case of export, there are two options on how to apply 4-bit weight-only quantization to LLM model:
### Using Python API
- Specify `quantization_config` parameter in the `.from_pretrained()` method. In this case `OVWeightQuantizationConfig` object should be created and set to this parameter as follows:
```pythonTransformers
from optimum.intel import OVModelForCausalLM, OVWeightQuantizationConfig

MODEL_ID = "meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3.1-8B"
quantization_config = OVWeightQuantizationConfig(bits=4, awq=True, scale_estimation=True, group_size=64, dataset="c4")
model = OVModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(MODEL_ID, export=True, quantization_config=quantization_config)

> model.save_pretrained("./llam-3.1-8b-ov")

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
model.save_pretrained("./llama-3.1-8b-ov")
```

```

### Using Command Line Interface (CLI):
```sh

> optimum-cli export openvino -m meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3.1-8B --weight-format int4 --awq --scale-estimation --group-size 64 --dataset wikitext2 ./llam-3.1-8b-ov

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
optimum-cli export openvino -m meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3.1-8B --weight-format int4 --awq --scale-estimation --group-size 64 --dataset wikitext2 ./llama-3.1-8b-ov
```
